# csc110project - Connection between COVID-19 and Crime

# Problem Description and Research Question
Crime can be defined as action and behavior deserving of punishment, actions that violate the legal agreements within societies known as statutory or common laws. Laws act as guidelines that are put in place to protect the peace within society and to ensure safety, where punishments are meant to deter crime. In the wake of COVID-19, society was faced with new rules and regulations to protect public well-being. These unforeseen circumstances were unfamiliar, and everyone from citizens to Government officials experienced feelings of uncertainty while the world experienced economic instability. At a speed that rivaled the spread of this new disease, panic, fear, and despair spread throughout the world like wildfire. Individuals feared for their life, and in times of crisis, the sense of unity within society was lost as people pointed fingers and blamed each other. As rumors regarding the virus’s origin were spread through social media and news, Xenophobia and Asian-related hate crimes were also on the rise. The sense of disunity and lack of safety experienced within society forced many public members into a state of constant paranoia. Through the need for isolation and social distancing, the sense of disunity that was already present was all the more apparent as we were forced to stay in our homes and keep to ourselves. As social creatures, social isolation has also resulted in additional stress in our lives. This stress gradually paved the way for high levels of tension and fear, which slowly became the prerequisites for crime and violence.

Throughout the COVID-19 pandemic, various policies like travel restrictions, lock-downs, vaccines and subsidies have been implemented within society, in hopes of ending the pandemic and protecting the well-being of Canadian citizens. Our group hopes to draw conclusions regarding the effect government policies have on crime, as well as the overall effect COVID has on crime as well.

Having experienced many of the adverse effects of COVID ourselves, including racism and paranoia, our group has become strongly motivated to investigate the relationship between COVID-19 and crime. Our curiosity regard- ing the social impact of COVID-19 took on a different perspective as we researched the adverse social effects of COVID-19 and the resulting change in crime rates during the pandemic. In our final decision to research What effect did the severity of COVID-19 have on the number of different types of reported crime within each province? and How did COVID-related policies influence the crime rate? We hope to be able to draw a conclusion of the association between COVID-19 and crime.
